### Overview

With the goal of supporting our fellow group members in doing the best
science we can, we expect that all members of the Simulating eXtreme
Spacetimes collaboration

-   Behave professionally in a way that is welcoming and respectful to
    all participants.

-   Behave in a way that is free from any form of discrimination,
    harassment, or retaliation.

-   Treat each other with collegiality and respect and help to create a
    supportive working environment.

For more specific guidelines for appropriate conduct, we refer
collaboration members to the “Ground Rules” section below, which is
based on the LLVM Code of Conduct at
<https://llvm.org/docs/CodeOfConduct.html>.

If you observe violations of the code of conduct, or have concerns about
potential violations, we encourage you to formally report this to one or
more members of the SXS Executive Committee. After investigation, the
Executive Committee will work to resolve the situation, in consultation
with parties involved and preserving confidentiality to the extent
allowed by law, as outlined below.

If you have a concern about a code of conduct violation or potential
violation, but you do not wish to report it formally, you can speak
informally and confidentially about your concern with the SXS
Ombudsperson (see below).

The Executive Committee will take appropriate action to ensure that all
members of the collaboration meet the expectations of our code of
conduct.

### Ombudsperson

The Ombudsperson (currently Geoffrey Lovelace, email
*ombudsperson@black-holes.org*) is a senior member of the collaboration,
either faculty or a senior researcher, who offers confidential, neutral,
and informal conflict resolution services to members of the SXS
Collaboration. All collaboration members should feel free to contact the
Ombudsperson to informally and confidentially discuss any concerns that
they might have regarding conflicts, problems, violations of the code of
conduct, or any other concerns they might have.

After speaking with Ombudsperson, if you wish, you can choose to ask the
Ombudsperson to bring your concerns to the attention of the SXS
Executive Committee or to other people at the appropriate institutions,
and you can also choose to report your concerns formally to the SXS
Executive Committee (as outlined below). Otherwise, unless there is a
serious issue of safety, your conversations with the Ombudsperson will
remain confidential.

We have adopted the same policy as the LIGO Scientific Collaboration
Ombudsperson; see this document, replacing “LSC” with “SXS
Collaboration”, and “LSC Spokesperson” with “the SXS Executive
Committee”, for more details about the Ombudsperson’s role:
<https://dcc.ligo.org/public/0099/M1300006/001/LSCOmbudsperson.pdf>

The executive committee will solicit volunteers for the position. The
executive committee will choose the ombudsperson by holding an election
with ranked-choice voting among those nominees that agreed to stand for
election. The ombudsperson serves a two-year term.

### Student/Postdoc Advocate

The Student/Postdoc Advocate (currently Masha Okounkova, email
*sxs-advocate@black-holes.org*) is someone who will advocate positively
for the people in the collaboration with less power, specifically high
school students, undergraduate students, summer REU students, grad
students, and postdocs. It may sometimes be daunting to go to
professors, so please feel free to talk to the Advocate about any issues
and concerns you may have in the collaboration, especially concerns
about culture and environment. The Advocate can bring up (anonymously)
any of your concerns with the SXS executive committee if you wish.
Otherwise, unless there’s a serious issue of safety, the Advocate will
keep the Ombudsperson in the loop but otherwise keep your conversation
confidential.

The SXS Advocate must be elected by the student and postdoc members of
SXS, and be within two years of their Ph.D. (i.e. a senior graduate
student or a new postdoc). The SXS executive committee will have a call
for nominations and then consult with nominees to see if they are
willing to be the advocate. If the SXS executive committee has any
concerns with a nominee, they will discuss these concerns with the
nominator. The SXS executive committee will then supervise an election
among SXS student and postdoc members with ranked-choice voting among
those nominees that agreed to stand for election. Once the list of
candidates for SXS advocate is announced, the executive committee cannot
change the candidate list (unless there is a serious violation of the
SXS code of conduct). The Advocate is elected for a one-year term, and
may be re-elected.

### Ground Rules (following the LLVM Code of Conduct)

The Simulating eXtreme Spacetimes (SXS) Collaboration has the goal of
supporting our fellow group members in doing the best science we can. To
this end, we have a few ground rules that we ask people to adhere to:

-   be friendly and patient,

-   be welcoming,

-   be considerate,

-   be respectful,

-   be careful in the words that you choose and be kind to others, and

-   when we disagree, try to understand why.

This is not an exhaustive list of things that you can’t do. Rather, take
it in the spirit in which it is intended — a guide to make it easier to
communicate and participate in the community. This code of conduct
applies to all spaces managed by the SXS Collaboration. This includes
physical spaces at institutions with SXS group members; Slack channels,
mailing lists, and bug trackers; SXS Collaboration events (such as the
visiting institutions and workshops); and any other forums created by
the collaboration uses for communication. It applies to all of your
communication and conduct in these spaces, including emails, chats,
things you say, slides, videos, posters, signs, or even t-shirts you
display in these spaces. In addition, violations of this code outside
these spaces may, in rare cases, affect a person’s ability to
participate within them, when the conduct amounts to an egregious
violation of this code. If you believe someone is violating the code of
conduct, we ask that you report it by emailing one or more members of
the SXS Executive Committee (see “Reporting” below). If you would rather
not formally report your concern, you should feel free to discuss it
informally and confidentially with the SXS Ombudsperson.

-   **Be friendly and patient.** During teleconferences and meetings,
    participants who wish to speak should feel free to type “hand up” or
    similar in the comment box, as needed, to get the chairs’ attention.
    Meeting/teleconference chairs are encouraged to make space for those
    unfamiliar with the topic of discussion to ask questions and engage.

-   **Be welcoming.** We strive to be a community that welcomes and
    supports people of all backgrounds and identities. This includes,
    but is not limited to members of any race, ethnicity, culture,
    national origin, colour, immigration status, social and economic
    class, educational level, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity
    and expression, age, size, family status, political belief, religion
    or lack thereof, and mental and physical ability.

-   **Be considerate.** Your work will be used by other people, and you
    in turn will depend on the work of others. Any decision you take
    will affect users and colleagues, and you should take those
    consequences into account. Remember that we’re a world-wide
    community, so you might not be communicating in someone else’s
    primary language.

-   **Be respectful.** Not all of us will agree all the time, but
    disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. We
    might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot
    allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It’s
    important to remember that a community where people feel
    uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. Members of the
    SXS Collaboration should be respectful when dealing with other
    members as well as with people outside the SXS Collaboration.

-   **Be careful in the words that you choose and be kind to others.**
    Do not insult or put down other participants. Harassment and other
    exclusionary behavior aren’t acceptable. This includes, but is not
    limited to:

    -   Violent threats or language directed against another person.

    -   Discriminatory jokes and language.

    -   Posting sexually explicit or violent material.

    -   Posting (or threatening to post) other people’s personally
        identifying information (“doxing”).

    -   Personal insults, especially those using racist or sexist terms.

    -   Unwelcome sexual attention.

    -   Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.

-   **In general, if someone asks you to stop, then stop.** Persisting
    in such behavior after being asked to stop is considered harassment.

-   **When we disagree, try to understand why.** Disagreements, both
    social and technical, happen all the time, and SXS is no exception.
    It is important that we resolve disagreements and differing views
    constructively. Remember that we’re different. The strength of
    communities comes from having a varied community, people from a wide
    range of backgrounds. Different people have different perspectives
    on issues. Being unable to understand why someone holds a viewpoint
    doesn’t mean that they’re wrong. Don’t forget that it is human to
    err and blaming each other doesn’t get us anywhere. Instead, focus
    on helping to resolve issues and learning from mistakes.

### Reporting (following the LLVM reporting process)

If you believe someone is violating the code of conduct, you can always
file a report by emailing one or more members of the SXS Executive
Committee. **All reports will be kept confidential.**

If you believe anyone is in **physical danger**, please notify
appropriate law enforcement first. If you are unsure what law
enforcement agency is appropriate, please include this in your report
and we will attempt to notify them.

Reports of violations of the code of conduct can be as formal or
informal as needed for the situation at hand. If possible, please
include as much information as you can. If you feel comfortable, please
consider including:

-   Your contact info (so we can get in touch with you if we need to
    follow up).

-   Names (real, nicknames, or pseudonyms) of any individuals involved.
    If there were other witnesses besides you, please try to include
    them as well.

-   When and where the incident occurred. Please be as specific as
    possible.

-   Your account of what occurred. If there is a publicly available
    record (e.g. a mailing list archive or Slack logs) please include a
    link.

-   Any extra context you believe existed for the incident.

-   If you believe this incident is ongoing.

-   Any other information you believe we should have.

What happens after you file a report? (Following the LLVM process) — You
will receive an email from the SXS Executive Committee member(s) you
contacted, acknowledging receipt within 24 business hours (and we will
aim to respond much quicker than that). If you do not receive an
acknowledgment, please resend your report.

They will review the incident and try to determine:

-   What happened and who was involved.

-   Whether this event constitutes a code of conduct violation.

-   Whether this is an ongoing situation, or if there is a threat to
    anyone’s physical safety.

Once the contacted SXS Executive Committee members have a complete
account of the events they will make a recommendation to the full
Executive Committee as to how to respond. Responses may include:

-   Nothing, if we determine no violation occurred or it has already
    been appropriately resolved.

-   Providing either moderation or mediation to ongoing interactions
    (where appropriate, safe, and desired by both parties).

-   A private reprimand from the working group to the individuals
    involved.

-   An imposed vacation (i.e. asking someone to take a week off from a
    mailing list or Slack).

-   Escalation to the appropriate institutions.

-   Involvement of relevant law enforcement if appropriate.

If the situation is not resolved within one week, we will respond within
one week to the original reporter with an update and explanation. Once
we have determined our response, we will separately contact the original
reporter and other individuals to let them know what actions (if any)
will be taken. We will take into account feedback from the individuals
involved on the appropriateness of our response, but we don’t guarantee
we’ll act on it.
